---
title: Year Review 2015
subtitle: A look back on what I achieved this year, the distractions that got in the way, and what I want to change and achieve going into 2016.
date: 2015-12-30 20:43:12
---

Wow, it's been a while since I've written anything on here. I've been so caught up with commissioned work, that I really let a lot of things slip in the second half of this year. Last year, I set myself a fair number of [goals to complete this year ](/2014/12/Farewell-2014-hello-2015/) and the big question is — did I achieve them?

<!--more-->

The short answer is, no, not really. Nearly all of my time this year ended up being spent on commissioned work. However, I did still achieved *stuff* this year.

Let's review the targets I set myself for this year first, and then look at what else I achieved this year.

##Goals I set myself for 2015

**Learn more about continuous delivery** — I really wanted to learn more about [continuous delivery](https://www.thoughtworks.com/continuous-delivery) and understand how I could incorporate more of this into my workflows. I think I'm closer to where I want to be after this year; I've had a tendency to work on projects in secrecy; not releasing them to the world until I felt I'd perfected them, and this is *totally* the wrong way to develop things. It doesn't matter how perfect I think something is, if my user base can't use it. Get the product out early, and iterate on it *frequently* based on user feedback. There's still a long way to go, but I'm really enjoying the benefits that continuous delivery brings.

**Use Rails and Meteor a lot more for back end projects** — I didn't get to use Rails and Meteor in projects, but I did use Node a lot more in projects. Meteor still feels like a closed ecosystem; it's essentially a lot of magic that sits on top of Node. Meteor does still appeal to me, but I think I'll only use it for projects that require quite a lot of database magic. Perhaps 2016 is the year? Perhaps not.

**Develop the Wildflame brand further** — As far as developing the Wildflame brand, I had to put some of the bigger tasks on the back-burner this year. I got some really nice business cards created for [my trip to Web Summit 2015](https://medium.com/@kingscooty/web-summit-2015-a-developer-s-perspective-c490c0048ad4), but everything else got put on hold. I'm really hoping I can completely revamp the website, and reposition the brand a bit in 2016.

**Incorporate electronics into more projects** — This goal went horribly wrong. I barely touched any hardware this year, which is rather upsetting. Again this comes down to not having any down time from paid work. I really want to make time for this in 2016. There's a backlog of things I'd like to make, including an LED ticker, and a Nuka Cola Quantum light from the Fallout game series, and a number of Internet of Things devices.

**Blog more** — Ha! Again, this one went horribly wrong. I haven't blogged an article since April, and the articles I did write, are rather uninspiring. I need to make amends this year; I'd like to make this site more of a resource in 2016, and blog more frequently, with more inspiring content. Watch this space!

**Exercise more by incorporating more into my daily commute** — I'm still power walking the 3–4 tram stops across town when I head into the office, and taking the stairs instead of the elevator. My biggest blocker, is when I work from home...

**Improve one thing by 1% each and every day** — This is pretty hard to do *each and every day*, but this has now become part of my philosophy, and I can only get better at it.

**Reduce the amount of distraction** — Out of all the goals I set myself, I think I accomplished this one the best. Distraction comes in many different forms, and my biggest distraction is clutter — cluttered mind, and cluttered surroundings. I never took notes, which meant my brain was always trying to remember things, I also constantly allowed my desk space (both physical and virtual) to get cluttered. I now use [Things](https://culturedcode.com/things/) and [Evernote](https://www.evernote.com/referral/Registration.action?sig=8053eeceed7c9c8951f1c6da01fddd71&uid=50553) religiously, and use [Hazel](https://www.noodlesoft.com/hazel.php) to automate *all* of the cleanup tasks on my computer. Sadly I can't use Hazel to clean my physical space, but I've got better at this too, and it's really helped keep me focused on the important tasks. I'm even using [Receipt Bank](http://receipt-bank.com/) to handle my expenses. I'm definitely going to try and automate even more things in 2016.



##Looking forward to 2016

So I guess it's that time again. Time to set myself more tasks / goals for the year ahead.

- Start investing in the stock market
- Electronics
- New websites for wildflame.co.uk and kingscooty.com
- Visit Germany and sample all their glorious wheat beers
