---
layout: post
title: Farewell, 2014, hello 2015!
subtitle: A look back on what I achieved this year, the distractions that got in the way, and what I want to change &amp; achieve going into 2015.
lastmod: 2015-01-24
date: 2014-12-30 18:31:45

cover_image: null

excerpt: "A look back on what I achieved this year, the distractions that got in the way, and what I want to change &amp; achieve going into 2015."

author:
  name: Scotty Vernon
  twitter: KingScooty
  gplus: +ScottyVernon 
  bio: Founder, Software Engineer @ Wildflame Studios
  image: ks.png
---

Well, it's that time again; another year has come to a close. This year's been pretty good to me. I've been to New York and Barcelona, dabbled with Rails backend development, taken a Raspberry Pi project from concept to centre stage of my living room, and helped develop a new product for the BBC (*which should go live early next year*).

All in all, **2014's been a good year**. 

*But it could have been even better.*

##Distraction is all around us

Distraction is all around us. From cluttered desktops (*both physical and non physical*), smatphones overcrowded with useless apps, to the ever increasing click bait that surrounds us online. I wonder just how much more productive I would have been this year if I'd have put a foot down on the distraction that surrounds me[?].

###Distraction no more

The one **big** thing I want to change going into 2015 is remove the amount of distraction that's in my life. Right now, I only a vague idea *how* I'm going to do it, but I know what areas I need to focus on:

- **Clear out all the useless apps on my phone**. No excuses. If it hasn't been used in a month, **delete it**.
- Keep both my physical and non physical desktops completely clean at all times.
- **Stop using my laptop while watching TV** - I end up not remembering what I've just watched, and not doing *anything* productive on my laptop.
- **Cut out how often I tend to email**. It's massively counterproductive.
- **Swap lifts for stairs**. This month I started taking the 10 flights of stairs up to the office I'm currently working from. It's paying benefits already. I need to continue this.
- **Stop putting things off** - if it needs doing, do it **immediately**, or **schedule it properly**.
- Automate anything repetitive that can be done by a machine.

##Targets for 2015

- I want to learn more about continuous delivery. 
- Use Rails and Meteor a lot more for back end projects.
- Develop the Wildflame brand further.
- Incorporate electronics into more projects.
- Blog more. I'd like to write about *something* at least twice a month.
- Exercise more by incorporating more into my daily commute.
- Improve one thing by [1% each and every day](http://jamesclear.com/marginal-gains).
- **Reduce the amount of distraction**.

I want 2015 to be the **year of less distraction, more automation and increased productivity**. Let's see where this takes me, and I'll report back on any improvements I make.